Azure Page Restructures (#1020)
spectrocloud/librarium: content/docs/04-clusters/01-public-cloud/03-azure/01-azure-cloud.md

---

> title: "Azure Cloud Account Creation"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Register and Manage Azure Account"
```

> metaTitle: "Register Azure cloud account to Palette console"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
metaTitle: "Register and manage an Azure cloud account in Palette"
```

> metaDescription: "The methods of registering Azure cloud account to Palette console"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
metaDescription: "This guide will help you register and manage an Azure cloud account in Palette"
```

hideToC: false
fullWidth: false
---

import Tabs from 'shared/components/ui/Tabs';
import WarningBox from 'shared/components/WarningBox';
import InfoBox from 'shared/components/InfoBox';
import PointsOfInterest from 'shared/components/common/PointOfInterest';
import Tooltip from "shared/components/ui/Tooltip";

> # Creating an Azure Cloud Account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Register an Azure Cloud Account
```
We avoid starting headlines with -ing. Here is the link to the section of the [style guide](https://spectrocloud.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DE/pages/1765933057/Spectro+Cloud+Internal+Style+Guide#Headings).

To deploy the Azure Clusters in the Palette Platform, having the Azure Cloud Account registered to the Palette Platform is a significant prerequisite. This section will guide you on creating an Azure cloud account in the Palette console.

## Video Demonstration

> Find the video demonstration of Azure Cloud Creation for Palette console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following video demonstrates the integration of Azure Cloud with the Palette console.
```

`video: title: "Azure-cloud-account": /cloud-accounts/azure.mp4`

The below section will guide the users with the prerequisites, steps and validation of Azure Cloud Account creation within the Palette console.

## Prerequisites

* Palette Account

* An active Azure cloud account with sufficient resource limits and permissions to provision compute, network, and security resources in the desired regions.

* Client ID: From Azure console

* Tenant ID: From Azure console

* Client Secret: Created at Azure console.

> ## How to Register Your Azure Cloud Account in Palette 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Enable Azure Integration
```

> To create an Azure cloud account in the Palette console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To register an Azure cloud account in the Palette console, follow the steps below.
```

1. Login to Palette console as **Tenant Admin** and select **Tenant Settings** from the **left main menu**. 

2. From the Tenant Settings go to **Cloud Accounts** and click **+ Add Azure Account**.

> 3. To the Add azure cloud account wizard, provide the following information:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. To the add Azure cloud account wizard, provide the following information:
```

|   **Basic Information** |Description|
|-------------------------|-----------|
|Account Name| A custom account name|
|Client ID| Unique client Id from Azure console|
|Tenant ID| Unique tenant Id from Azure console|
|[Client Secret](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#create-an-azure-active-directory-application)| Azure secret for authentication|
|Tenant Name| An optional tenant name|
|[Disable Properties](/clusters/public-cloud/azure/azure-cloud#disableproperties)| To disable the import of Azure networking details.|
|Toggle **Connect Private Cloud Gateway**| An option to select the [Self-Hosted PCG](/clusters/public-cloud/azure/gateways#overview) already created from the drop-down menu to link it to the cloud account. |

**Note:** For existing cloud accounts go to **Edit** and toggle the **Connect Private Cloud Gateway** option to select the created Gateway from the drop-down menu.

<br />

> 4. Click **Confirm** to complete the wizard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click on the **Confirm** button to complete the wizard.
```

2. On creating the application, a minimum required [ContributorRole](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles#contributor) needs to be assigned. To assign any kind of role, the user must have a minimum role of [UserAccessAdministrator](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles#user-access-administrator). The role can be assigned by following the [Assign Role To Application](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#assign-a-role-to-the-application) link.

3. Follow the steps described in the [Create an Application Secret](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#create-a-new-application-secret) section to create the client application secret. Store the Client Secret safely as it will not be available as plain text later.

<br />

> ## Validation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Validation
```

To validate the Azure Cloud account creation in Palette console:

1. Login to Palette console as **Tenant Admin** and select **Tenant Settings** from the **left main menu**. 

2. From the Tenant Settings go to **Cloud Accounts** and in this page under the Label of **Azure** the registered cloud account will be listed.

<br />

> 

Reviewer: # Manage Azure Account

After an Azure cloud account has been registered with Palette, you can change the integration settings or remove the Azure account.
